in the previous video we looked at how
to catch exceptions and handle them
using the try and accept statements and
we looked at how to use finally to make
sure that we can run clean up code for
example even if an exception is raised
and then we also saw yet another use of
the else keyword this time to execute
code if an exception isn't raised now
handling exceptions is important to make
sure your code doesn't crash so if you
can take some useful action when an
exception is raised then you should
certainly do so but what happens if you
code can't handle the exception now
if your module relies on a file name that has
been provided by the user for example
they may have entered an invalid volume or
drive letter on Windows now your module
may be called by some other code that
requested the file name so you can't
just go picking a random location on
the computer to write your data to so
in that case there's not a lot that your code
can do about the exception
now you may be tempted to ask the user
for another file name but if you're
code is running on a remote server or as a
windows service
no one will ever see your prompt and
your program will sit there waiting for
input that will never come so in that
case theirs 2 actions you can take one
action really the first thing you can do
is do nothing and we'll see in a minute
that doing nothing can actually be the
best approach and they can be nothing
wrong with ignoring exceptions that you
can't deal with but the other option is
to raise an exception to let the calling
code know that something's gone wrong so
we're going to use our duck class to
demonstrate this so got the game project
open and you can see I've got the duck
stop py file opened so if you haven't
got this file or you've been experimenting
or modifying it then you will find the
original ducks .py file in the
resources section for this video so
we're going to use our duck class in a demo
program to model durk migration now
it's all a bit simplified but if I
waited until we really needed to use
exceptions in our database code you'd
have to learn about them while also
having a lot of new database concepts
to understand so I put this
example together to explain raising
exceptions before we need to do things
like this in real code now our duck
class maybe we'll be very simple but
what we're about to do is exactly what you
would do in real modules to make them
more robust and to make debugging
easier
ok so should either have the game project
loaded which I've got on screen there or
you should have created a new python
project with a Python file called ducks
and then paste in the text from ducks.py
from the resources section of this
video so what I'm going to do is
start by adding a new class to duck.py
to represent a flock of ducks i'm
going to call this class flock and add it
after the penguin class down here at
the bottom going to clean up some of
this code that's been commented out so
I'm actually going to add this
class here on line 45 actually what I
might do just make it a space down here so
it's a little bit easier for us to
see going to start with class...
....
ok so there's our flock class so it's a
fairly basic classes you can see when we
create a new flock the unique method in
line 48 creates an empty list called
flock and that's with a lowercase as you
can see there now we got an add
duck method to add new ducks to the
flock and also this migrate method that
causes every duck in the flock to fly by
calling their fly method so next what
we're going to do is use our duck
objects in another program so we're
going to create a new python file
called migration migration so we need to
import ducks so that we can use the
object from ducks.py and then i'm going
to create a new flock and add some ducks
to that so import...
....
...okay so
obviously I didn't try to think up other
names so for each duck but if you're in
a habit of naming duck then
you've either got a good scientific
reason for doing so or a very strange
hobby
alright so we've now got a new flock
object
we've also got the seven ducks that
we've defined herein line 4 through
so let's now go ahead and add the Ducks
to the flock....
...
....
....so
it now contains seven ducks and we
should be able to make the migrate so
we do that by typing...
so try running that to confirm that it
works you can see that time we've got
seven messages their so each duck is
successfully flying so far that's
working fine but the problem comes if i
try to add percy the penguin to the
flock let me show you what i mean so i'm
going to do....
...
....
....you see that we've
actually got an error so as you can see
here we've only got four of our ducks
that have managed to fly the other three
grounded and failed to take off and again
percy he had a problem trying to fly as
well and i put this into
floating mode right now to make it easier
and probably see those links a little
easier so you probably recall from we're
setting up a penguin that this was going
to happen and that's because penguins
can't fly so the migrate method crashes
when it tries to call Percy's fly method
so we're going to use this simple
example to look at how we can handle
problems like this and the first thing we
should do is to provide the users of our
modules with a hint as to what they
should be passing to our methods now
python 3.5 added support for type hints
in function and method declarations but
function annotations have been around
since python 3.0 you can use an
annotation in exactly the same format as
as a type in what we're about to do will
work with all versions of python 3 in
fact type hints it's just a formalization of
using function annotations for static type
analysis and it was mainly done so that
type checking tools have a standard to
work with now the lint checker in
IntelliJ that gives us those warnings
and errors in the right margin
is one such checker alright so let's add
some hints to our add duck method so that
at least anyone using attacks module has
an indication of what they should be
providing to the method so we're going
to actually just come back here close down
run window and i'm going to add
the code back in ducks.py and
specifically what we're going to be
looking at is the flock object and we're
going to add hint to the add duck method
so parameters are annotated by using a
colon followed by the type of the
parameter and return values are
indicated using the literal a dash and a
greater than symbol
let's go ahead and do that so with duck
we're going to put...
...
...so again parameters
are annotated by using a colon as you
can see here and then now followed by
the type of the perimeter and the return
value can see I use a dash and a
greater than sign and then the type of
the parameter in this case we're using
none when I switch back now that I've
done that to migration py so you can
see that intelliJ lint checker has
picked up the annotation and we've
actually got this percy showing a
warning if I can hover over that now
expected type duck got penguin instead if
you click on one of the add duck method calls
doesn't matter which one then use
control q or ctrl J on a Mac there's now
indication that we should be adding
objects of type duck as you can see there
now note that self has been annotated
automatically self flock up here there's
no need to annotate the self parameter
in method calls so function annotations
or type hints as they're called they
do use exactly the same mechanism can be
very useful now they're very simple to
use so there's only one other thing i
want to say about them now if you use a
hint
for one of the parameters then add a
hint for all of them including the
return value you can find more
information of this in pet 484 lets
just to open a browser I will quickly show
that
[Music]
if you scroll down here
here under the non goals section it
should be emphasized that python will
remain a dynamically typed language and
the authors have no desire to ever make
type hints mandatory even by convention
and the second parameter under here the
next section the meaning of annotations
that recommends that you add hints for
all arguments and the return type if
you're going to add hints for any of them
and I think that's probably good
practice so do that
ok so we've given the users of our
module an indication of what they should
pass to the add_duck_
method as if the name was an
indication enough in this case but that
still doesn't prevent it from crashing
if they ignore the hint so if we go ahead
and run this migration .py we still
get crashing
so let's stop the video here and in the
next video we're going to have a look at
this stack trace and talk about this a
little bit further so we'll see you in
the next video